Okay, we are live. Hello.
So, I'm never live on Sundays.
What the heck is going on here?
Well, I woke up this morning and I
thought instead of playing Runescape all
day today today on my day off, why don't
I try to do some reinforcement learning
on it?
So, uh, you know, I I was like, man,
where am I going to get the assets for
this? Well, Colossim exists. They're
probably they have figured out how to
export stuff. Maybe I'll just go look at
that. And it's a little jank because I
couldn't export all the triangles, but
I mean that's the inferno map right
there. And this is in C.
Like this is just running live super
fast in C.
I managed to even preserve all the nice
tiles here. So nothing's messed up like
that. And uh I think what we're going to
do, I'm going to try something fun
today. First of all, before I start this
Jagex, if you see this, I am not botting
your game. I love your game.
This is a research project. All right,
we're doing this because uh Runescape
bosses are kind of cool problems for RL
and it's a nice little test and showcase
of our algorithms. Uh this is not
actually ever going into the main game.
So with that said, uh what I want to do
here today,
like this thing exists, right?
And these have been up for a while. Uh,
apparently these are fine because these
haven't gotten like taken down or
anything. Uh, you can see this is crazy
laggy,
but this is a shitty TypeScript
implementation of the inferno and uh,
there's also the coliseum. It's mostly
the base engine plus content patches for
individual things, right?
Uh, I don't really want to spend the
time to do the full full UI like this
and everything, but what I'm thinking
is, and I also was thinking like, should
I have AI port this? AI is going to make
a mess of this. So, what I'm going to do
instead is I'm going to write the code.
All right. And I'm going to use the AI
to callull through the original
repository
and basically uh to answer questions on
how various things are implemented. So I
make sure I match the uh the engine
exactly.
I think they use this for the assets as
well, but I just went and grabbed them
off of the site.
So that's what we're doing.
That is
uh what we are doing.
So I think
I think the first thing we want to do is
just get the player to be able to move
around even without
without animations or anything, right?
Players, NPCs.
Let's do that.
I'm also using this to just like figure
out where they have everything stored.
Um
cuz that's a total total pain. I don't
think we're going to do animations right
away necessarily.
But if we could at least get the
movement and stuff working, that'd be
cool.
Oh, yeah. If anybody's curious as well,
looks really snazzy in uh in Blender.
So, I guess this is how all the artists
that are like um making custom trailers
for people for the game. This is
probably what they do. They probably
just load the assets, but then they do
it with Blender's renderer instead of
with um you know, the Runescape one.
Happy five. Did we hit 5K stars on
Puffer? If so, this is a great
celebratory stream. In fact, you know
what? Let's just say that I planned that
5,000 stars on Puffer. Okay, awesome.
Yeah, in that case, then this is totally
We're going to just go with this being a
celebratory 5K star stream where we're
just going to do something cool all day
on a Sunday. How's that?
Ooh.
Okay,
this is nice.
player models.
So, my first environment mechanics
already working and not running
properly. Bomber man with two agents.
Cool. Um, just make one of the agents,
make the enemy just a dumb scripted
opponent or just a random opponent and
you should get a 100% win rate in
seconds. If you don't, it's probably a
problem with the environment or at most
the hypers. Puffer will 100% like
one-shot that end.
It'll one shot this end too. At least
the final boss. It might take a little
bit more to do the whole um whole
inferno.
Let's actually just tweet this.
Thank you, Fruit Punch. I remember you.
Welcome. We're doing something fun right
now.
We are uh
so I spent this morning seeing if we
could get assets loaded in from uh
Runescape
to Puffer and it turns out you can. So
here's the whole Inferno map.
And I actually think the graphics are
way more of a pain than the engine. Like
it's not going to be that hard to
implement
uh the core of the Inferno if we have
decent visuals.
So that's what we're doing right now.
We're kind of scraping the uh Inferno
Trainer for where they got all their
assets from and we're going to see if we
can load stuff in. And then uh this will
be fun because this will be I'm going to
be writing all the code myself. So,
we're going to use the model to like uh
answer questions on how various things
are done in a couple of the open source
projects around here where their code's
a bit of a mess.
What's this? Each one is a full
character
blow pipe one.
Okay, they have fused player models.
That's fine.
See if all these exist.
Looks like they do.
Hell yeah. Look at that.
This seems cool. Yeah, I thought it
would be a fun way to celebrate, right?
Let's do player
model.
Let's just do player for now.
Player twisted.
Now, this is going to be a little weird,
I think. So, let's do like 32.
Um, let's do like one
like maybe
six.
Let's see if we can see it.
Vertices not supported. Dang.
vertices attribute data format not
supported. So, this is the annoying
thing and this is why uh this is the
thing that I thought was going to be a
total pain with this is just like the
model formats, right?
The model formats don't always like to
uh agree.
Oops.
Buffer lab
resources
We got a whole bunch of model files.
Hello. Where's my player?
It just didn't import. Right.
Not supported on this. Oh, right. We
have to we have to convert it.
That's fine. It's just compression. It's
not bad.
The heck?
No, we had this before, didn't we?
This one.
We'll just do it. We'll just do it
manual like this for now.
So this can be
player twisted bow.
How's this not? Um,
okay, that one loads in Blender.
How's this not worked?
Oh, no. This one. This is why
it's this one. Uh, was it
this one? Yeah.
Twisted bow.
Uh, and then we'll do
player twisted bow
compressed.
Cool, right?
Still no. Oh, cuz you forgot this one,
dummy.
There we go. Player twisted bow
decompressed.
Yeah.
Attribute data not supported.
Using use veloat.
Okay, let's see if it loads in Blender
at least.
Uh, decompress JP.
Huh?
What was the exact error?
Set more weights.
Oops.
So what if we can get all the animations
and stuff loaded like correctly, this
will actually be very easy.
Okay. Oh, this has the animations baked
in.
Interesting.
Yeah, here it is.
Mesh quantization and compression.
Integers, not floats. You need to
dequantize.
Player DQ want.
All right, let's see if this one works.
Right.
Still no.
Yeah. So, this thing doesn't have
this command doesn't exist.
Hey YouTube folks, we are uh
we are attempting to port the the
inferno to uh to see at the moment so
that we can train RL agents on it.
I'm just fighting with um some of the
loading of models. We already have the
scene loaded into C. I'll show you in a
second. I got to get the player model
loaded.
separate commands.
Go ahead.
Yeah, this is going to be a lot more fun
as well because this is now um
like I get to be writing all the code
and I'm just using this for figuring out
assets and like other crap.
star to SPS ratio.
Uh, it's currently about uh.3 I'd say.
No, what is it? 0. No, 0003.
So, really to get us to a appropriate
ratio, I'm going to need to have about
15 million stars, maybe 16 million.
Have you seen the uh the project that
we're attempting today? Manuel
Damn. Still no.
Still no.
Nope. Currently battling RDMA. Fun.
Well, we have here. If I just uh take
out for one second, I'll show the I'll
show the current progress.
We got the model loaded in.
I think I can just do this, right?
Yeah, we got the model loaded in.
Need to get the player and the mobs
loaded.
Are you porting sim graphics too? Yep.
Built a shitty react viewer from it.
Looks cool. This is uh Ray Lib and C.
I really really like Ray Lib for
graphics.
I wish it had better support for um like
different model formats. That's the only
annoying thing.
Um, but it's like it's super simple and
super fast.
Which end is this?
So, um, this exists. This is a shitty
TypeScript sim of, uh, one of the
hardest pieces of content in Runescape.
And I want to port, see how laggy this
thing is. I want to port most of this to
Puffer.
And I want to see if Puffer can beat the
Inferno. Another
detour. Yeah, man. I got bored and it
was we hit 5K stars today, so I figured
I'd stream something fun for this. How
much Runescape are you boarding? Uh, if
we could get the full inferno, that
would be awesome.
Comments stopped being forwarded to on
YouTube. Lovely.
Uh, hang on. Thank you for telling me.
Let me just
I'll pull it up on the side so I can
still kind of see what's going on in
case I missed them. I can't He can't see
our comments. Yep, that's exactly what
happened. Great. Uh, yep. So, I missed
all the fruit punches using puffer lip
to do the same. Ron Bellro via Rust.
Yeah, you can do that. Game end setup is
a lot of work. Yes, it is.
undergrad
wondering whether there's some
recommended way to share agents hidden
state with other agents to allow inter
agent communication. Uh there kind of
isn't. Yeah, there kind of is. You can
centralize stuff but like frankly most
problems don't need it.
Uh vast maj majority of problems don't
need it. Are you recreating your inferno
sim? Yep.
The plan on going real or just sim? Uh
no. We're not going to deploy this in
the game. We're not botting Runescape.
This is uh for fun. We're not going to
mess up the uh the real game. Yeah,
thank you for um thank you for that. I
can't I could not see the comments.
All right, now I should be able to see
stuff though.
Yeah, I really just have to take some
time to switch over to Streamlabs, but
every time I should like be taking some
time to do admin stuff, I end up doing
this type of thing instead.
Okay. So, why is this still not loading?
Right.
Yeah. Still
puff beats Inferno in like a minute.
Yep.
Scripted policies in four minutes. Yeah,
that's kind of expected.
Why is Miss Spencer streaming yet? I
don't know. You're not required to
stream. That's not a requirement to buff
Oh yeah. Look how cool this thing looks
though. If I just open up um
Look how freaking cool this thing looks.
Not rendering. Where is it? Shading.
Yeah. Look at this.
Doesn't that look awesome? You just have
the entire freaking Inferno scene loaded
up into Blender like this.
Oh, and uh hang on. Let me just real
quick so we uh we establish one thing
here.
Uh
just so we establish one small thing
here.
Where'd you get the assets? There are
several projects related to
decompressing assets. Um, all the
editors like the video editors use them
for uh making all the trailers and
intros to people's stuff.
Yeah. So, just so we're um
I do actually have one of these
So, I know this is a very very hard
environment for people. I know that. But
I think it's going to be very easy for
RL.
old uncompressed version.
Let's try this.
Bet an RL agent got that cave. There are
no RL agents that do the inferno yet.
And there won't be either cuz this is
not going in their main game.
unsupported engine.
Well, we have this thing did technically
this thing did technically load, right?
clean.
It still has It still has the
compression
mesh alt.
Let's see if it has these. And then if
not, we'll have to figure out this.
I'm going to figure out some way to
intentionally make it a in the ass to do
that. Man,
if anything, I'd way rather uh I'd way
rather work with Jagex to like use this
stuff to ban bots, you know, like train
a big generative model on our RL models
and then on the they could train one on
their real player data and then you
could see what matches real player
versus not, something like that.
I'm still working on um
Doomcas
though. I did get my treads.
That was pretty cool. What the heck is
this? Sure.
Go ahead. Try try to custom script this.
I'll be shocked if this works.
go 3D.
This work
just tell me I shopped.
Player converted should now load.
Really?
That'd be nice.
Uh, converted.
Damn it.
Python trace back.
Well, wait. It's It's a different error.
Pi mesh shape key names is not none.
Is there um a console window in Blender
where I can get the error message from?
Oh, wait. Is this is it the same? No,
this is dated, right? This error is
This is an old error message, right?
Because it shouldn't have it anymore.
Yeah. So,
index out of range and set morph
weights.
Morph targets might be corrupted.
Sure.
What are you making that needs blender?
I will show you.
We are porting the inferno
to uh see.
Hardest part of it is not the uh the end
code. Actually the hardest part is the
graphics.
Get or create action
and slot.
Blender is to make texture. I'm not
making any of these textures. I'm just
porting stuff.
These are Runescape assets.
Okay. Well, we need the animation data.
Um, we do need the animation data, but
we can start without it
because that's something I can give to a
contributor actually to to figure out.
Where's um
where's my mesh?
I don't see anything.
Let's try the 3JS loader.
What the heck?
Uh, yeah, this is just a twisted bow.
Uh, that's not what we want.
Player.
Okay. Well, this is massive and it's
just a twisted bow.
So,
that doesn't help me, dude.
Actually, I wonder if it is. Oh, it is.
It is loading.
Yeah, that loads.
So, that's nice that it loads.
Have you edited anyone using Arl for
game theory?
Can be a few small.
Yeah. So the problem with game theory is
it doesn't work.
Um
it really just doesn't work.
Where's the player model?
Go find the player.
It is the twisted bow model, though.
It's kind of weird. It's missing It's
missing the string and stuff, too.
Is it supposed to just be flat like
this? H.
Got to have a player model on here
somewhere.
I don't think it has a string in game.
Does it not have a string?
Wait, really?
Let's check.
I want to know if these models are like
screwed up or not.
Where's my bow?
Oh, shoot. You're totally right.
It doesn't actually have a string,
right?
Why does it not have this string?
Yeah, you're right.
That's funny.
Oops. Cancel
this.
Okay, so the models are correct. They're
just kind of like they're just
impossible to find like
It's just like looking through
everywhere possible for where it could
be loading.
What do you mean by game theory does not
work? Like you think, ah, game theory,
we can use this to play this game,
right? Like optimally. But no, it's
actually just like a a very very
restricted mathematical model of a very
small subset of games that aren't all
that interesting.
So you basically you get to bang your
head against a bunch of very hard math
and then it's not even applicable to
problems you care about.
Oh wait, hang on. Maybe they don't even
have one.
Is there a player model or is it
literally just like if you take your
gear off, are you invisible in this?
They don't have a player model. That's
why it's not working.
That's hilarious.
There's no player model. It's literally
just the gear.
Okay.
Algebraic solution. Yeah, but it doesn't
work.
It like
go on try to solve this with the infern
like try to solve this end with game
theory. I'll wait. try to come up with
anything remotely useful out of game
theory for it. I'll wait. Hey,
interesting bug today. Did it take a
video of it? That's cool. Yeah, RL can
do that.
I was like, why on earth is there no
player model? It's because there's
actually no player model in
tile to world.
This is fine.
Let's do raw cube
equals
2817.
So uh
also immediately learn to run away and
gap the scripted policies.
H that's cool.
Go look up the rail docs.
Oh, see, and of course I forgot to look
at the uh YouTube comments. Spams a lot
of comments. It locks YouTube comments.
Yeah, it does that.
Man, how do I like not miss all the
comments?
Like I have them up in the screen, but
they're super tiny and I just forget
because they're not merged with my chat
as a stupid reream. Let's switch to
Streamlabs.
Let's do
draw cube. Position, width, height,
length, color.
I don't see any cubes. Do you? Oh,
there's a cube.
Not at all the right position.
Why are you working today? I felt like
it. And also, we hit 5K stars.
Yeah, we'll do this to cal we'll do this
to figure it out real quick.
Then we'll just do calibration controls,
right?
Did you do anything to celebrate? This
is That's what we're doing right here,
man.
We're doing a fun stream on a Sunday.
Oh,
okay. Well, this is not working. We need
this to go here.
Okay. So maybe we can calibrate from
this, right?
2817.
Wait, 2817. Has it flipped?
If this is the north pillar, this looks
actually
Not too far off, right?
I think it's Is it flipped one way like
the Z?
How on earth is this 13?
terminal being puffer is kind of goed.
Just got it installed.
Yeah, I've been working on it.
It's
very very fast for four.
So, you should be able to mess around
very quickly. Let's say inter need inter
agent communication through
communication vectors.
load the vectors into the CN at each
step and then capture as OBS.
You can do it purely in Python, I would
think. Yeah, you can do it purely in
Python
cuz it's like puffer is not designed to
just be communicating big chunks of data
that aren't in the action space and the
end doesn't need to know about that
stuff either. So I would look at that as
a purely algorithmic change
that's not endpecific.
See if it's just flipped.
Oh, and also let's just draw the um
player pause.
Uh and we'll just do player Y.
three
just so I can actually see it above the
ground.
six
12.5
negative negative
I do it like this.
No, it's still not
Yeah, we're not [__] around with
this. We're just going to go figure out
how to port the They already have the
ports figured out. We're going to just
do that.
I'm not going to sit here trying to like
guess coordinates
and then have it be bubbed. We want
stuff to match exactly
Okay.
probably flips it.
Yay! My model is like poof gone.
We're not screwing with this. We're not
going to like sit here and mess around
with um
you know guessing chords, nor am I going
to go through with the original mess
code. We're just going to have this
thing pull the logic out and then I will
implement everything myself here so it's
clean. And uh basically we're going to
do that for all the mechanics as well.
Okay,
like this
file to world.
This is going to be float
file x minus
uh
6.0 F
and then Y is going to be
3.5F
float.
This is the exact same thing as what it
was before.
Area in the center.
This is going to be
19. Nope, that's target.
Wait, I'm confused.
Uh, wait. Target is 19
128.
Position
19.
I can't read because it's flipped. This
is negative
five.
I do it right. 40
2.5 19 Yes. 19 12 28 28 Yes. up is like
this. FOV Y is
70.
Raw model.
Draw the test cube.
Draw a model.
Draw a cube.
One, one, one red.
And then completed
updated block.
It's fine.
Okay. I mean that's
that's something
that is uh that is something.
Now is this
it's in the middle of two tiles.
Yeah, this puts the cube in the middle
of two tiles.
Is it the size of one tile?
I can't tell if it's exactly in the
middle of two tiles.
I think the inferno trainer has that.
Yeah, it's already implemented in the
inferno trainer.
This is going to be the hard part
honestly. Once we have consistent
rendering and stuff, it's actually
pretty easy to implement the uh the
mechanics.
Like it's not that much stuff. There is
some basic pathing
um you know some basic attack cycle
stuff but like not that
Not that tough.
Ray plane.
Uh we don't want to do 3D. This is we
would want this to be screen
Pause.
World two tile.
This one is fine though.
Right. Because we don't actually have
the um
Wait, can't we just do it with the mesh?
Ray. Get Ray.
Yeah, this is only ever going to get
used.
Ray collision.
I guess it's fine to do it with the
plane though for now. What are you
working on right now? Hello. We're doing
something a little ridiculous to
celebrate 5K stars.
We are attempting to port the inferno uh
to C so we can use it as an RL
environment.
Yeah, I think we can do it
like this.
But this is going to be harder. So I
think it is actually fine to do it this
way. But we're not going to take all
this. So here,
so uh basic
We don't need to ray plane intersection.
We can just do
get hovered tile
two.
Hover tile.
This actually should go with the client.
Yeah, let's do this with the client down
here.
So, this is fine. This goes like this.
Vector 3
equals and we're not going to do this.
The ray plane intersection
ray.position.y.
So we'll just do plane
5.
clean y minus array
positiony
and then we'll do
vector 3 world pause is going to be
t
y = plane y z
direction like this
buffer be used for robotics? Absolutely.
Um, we don't do a ton of stuff in
robotics, but it is general purpose RL
tech. It does support continuous, though
disperising is often better if it's not
super high dim.
So, you can plug whatever env you want
into it. It's a pretty simple format.
And as long as you have the end fast,
then puffer is just fast. You're going
to need a SIM, though, is the thing,
right? Like, you're not just going to
train on live hardware. You're going to
need a good SIM.
I don't think you really need a fancy
physics package though just for like a
simple arm like that. You could probably
just write one.
Okay. Then we do world to tile
which we already have
here too.
world to tile
and then return
floor.
Okay, that's fine.
I already have math.
Just do
vector to hover tile is going to be get
hovered tile.
And then for the outline,
uh, we need to go to world, uh, world
chords, right?
continuous. Does that mean it will be
slower? No.
Continuous learning can be a little jank
sometimes. We do have it tested working
in four though.
So, tile two world
Draw a line ex
So we to
world tile to world
tile to world
plus one.
That should hopefully be the square
world two tile.
This one. We need
Yep, this one's good.
Incompatible type. So was it tile to
world
hovered tile.x X.
That doesn't make sense.
vector 3 file
file to world takes um
how are we passing
oh wait tile to world so draw a line X.
Yeah.
I see.
So we do
tile to world
and then we'll just do
x
Z
probably something like that, right?
New variable expected expression
Okay.
Well, it's not drawing anything.
You should totally be doing it in screen
space anyways.
Ah, dummy.
Actually,
this is better to just do like this,
right? W.
It is better to do W
You don't need to do you don't need to
set it to -2.4 on. It's not how it
works.
Get
screen.
And then this one is
W00.
Now, can we do draw a line X? Yes.
X S.
Try this.
Oh, there is a thing. Look at that.
I can't tell if it's snapping to a tile
or not, but we do have one.
Good. Good.
This is funny.
Oops.
Minus.5 -.5 -49.
Okay,
but they're probably drawing it in world
space, right?
So we just have to convert back to
screen.
file to me. Pause.
Selected. X floor.
Okay.
0.5 f not -2.5 f
is going to be plain y minus this for
direction.
It's correct. It's correct. It's
correct.
And then this one
just returns. So this floor
this is floor pause
and then
floor.
Okay.
We do tile to mesh.
Okay,
just do vector
pile
on.
And then we have the four corner. So we
have this one
is just going to be the corner.
And then this one is
vector three
and it is actually a 1.0 0 scale
uh in world courts. It is a 1.0 scale in
world courts which is nice
and then this gets projected.
This
see
I do not know what that means my guy.
Thank you or screw you or whatever that
is.
Okay. Uh this is very close. You see
this is actually super close. Now the uh
the tile highlights
They're a little bit off, right?
It's very difficult to tell.
Is this size off?
Is it not exactly one?
It looks like it's not exactly one.
I can't tell.
That was a compliment
then. And that's why I said thank you or
[__] you. I don't know which one it is.
Right.
Yeah, it's off for sure. It looks too
small. Okay. It's definitely too small
right here. Right.
Oh, is it the zoom level?
I think it's the zoom level, right?
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's the zoom level.
Look at that.
What are we building
here? You can go try this. Um, this
exists for uh this is an existing
project in Typescript. So, I'm trying to
port this thing to BNC C. You can see
it's super laggy, but it's actually a um
a full implementation pretty much of the
Inferno.
I don't even know if I'd be able to play
it in here if I tried. It's like so
laggy.
Oh, it's set to 62. This is like one of
the hardest waves as well.
draw in 3D.
I think we can do the pathing after
this.
At least the basic pathing without
collisions.
RL and robotics work. They usually need
to build sims. Yes.
So, the problem with roboticists is they
have this massive stack of physics sim
software that's like terribly built and
completely undecipherable,
indecipherable
and very slow. And um for lower dim
stuff, you just don't need it.
But yeah, like everything is sim
Yeah, tiny.
Yeah, that's definitely what it is.
Maybe I left a 2.5 in Okay.
That's super annoying.
draw an XZ plan.
When do you work on Sundays? I felt like
it, Justin. We hit uh we hit 5K stars,
so I'm doing something fun.
What are you doing in the inferno?
We're attempting to port it to sea.
and train our L agents on it.
Just started a couple hours ago.
Got the model loaded.
We're mostly trying to figure out the
coordinates. The actual logic, I think,
is going to be easier than the visuals.
So, we're getting visuals first.
Did you copy the TypeScript and ask
Cloud to port it? Oh, so I'm writing
code. I'm having it like cull through
the TypeScript to figure out how they've
implemented stuff cuz the TypeScript
code sucks.
This plane has to go into 3D.
Yeah, I figured it would be a fun thing
to do, right?
What are you using for the visuals? Uh,
the Runescape assets. And then I'm
trying to get it to work in Ray Lib just
in plain C.
It'll be super nice if it works.
Uh,
what is going on here?
plane.
I mess up the sig
center p size color
vector three.
Oh, dummy
plane pause.
Okay, so we can do like
And then basically it's Oh, wow. That's
like way in the wrong spot, isn't it?
I have to make this way bigger.
Anyone done a football end? No. Jess
This is the hard part honestly. Like the
hard part is not the logic. The hard
part is getting us consistent visuals so
we can see what the hell is going on.
Because like think about it, right?
Movement logic, collision logic, tick,
like it's all pretty straightforward.
You can clearly see when stuff is
working or not.
The hard part is getting the consistent
visuals,
which is why I put off doing this for so
long.
Cool. They have a one to 128 scale.
Ray live on top of the logic and hitbox.
Yeah, you try to figure this [__] out
though cuz like
you have to realize that the TypeScript
code for this.
All right, look. This is what the
TypeScript code looks like.
Okay, actually this one's not bad
because this is tiny. Um, but if you
like go look at the the actual SDK with
the engine, like it's TypeScript brain
crap with a billion tiny files and it's
like actually impossible to find
anything.
just a separate TypeScript file for
every freaking prayer.
I can't find like engine. I can't find
anything.
I look
they got a billion things.
How am I supposed to do anything about
that? Right.
Plane Y is.5.
Five.
update the camera
with the new chords.
Camera.target is
negative0.5
40 positive
And then this is 19 15.
and we're not remotely looking at the
inferno at all now, are we?
Uh, is this match way better, though?
Yeah, the tiles match way better, I
think.
Yeah, the tiles are very close now
independent of zoom.
Yeah. So, the tiles are very close.
TypeScript plus rust a match bidden
webdub. Hell yeah.
I mean, if that's your stack, I kind of
just assume you're an idiot.
I to world.
Player pauses here.
draw a cube.
I'm a little suspicious of this. Let's
say
uh I think this is even better for the
Okay, we're almost perfect on the tiles.
We still out of frame.
Scene looks flipped as well, doesn't it?
Like you should be starting.
Where do you start in this?
Yeah, you start like here, which is near
the side and then almost centered,
right?
Let's see if that's at least right.
Still off.
sending media to a consumer device.
Method for storing media content and
delivering requested media content to a
consumer device.
Sunny as hell.
This one.
We're going back to this one again.
You don't touch my clothes my code this
time. CL
you have proven you are [__] I write
the code.
So this is plus
camera position.
We look at
19.540
all internal geometry.
Yep. We are completely out of whack
here.
It's the same model though.
We can try drawing it at zero.
Okay,
this is probably just camera depth.
Position is
Is this right? Wait. Target
25 28
position 2530.
And where are we?
No, we are now in Narnia.
Wait, I'm confused because
we just drew the model
at zero
and
yeah, we drew the model at zero
and then we just moved our chords
learning languages.
Uh I studied it for like six years when
I was way younger. I guess
the thing that I mostly did, I did a mix
of just studying some vocab um and
grammar formally and then just writing a
bunch of like doing a bunch of writing,
writing a bunch of essays. Uh when I I
learned I think two years worth of
Chinese in like a month or two and two
years of Spanish at the same time doing
the same thing just like doing a bunch
of writing in said language.
languages. I'm not learning anything
now. He is.
Uh,
this does not make sense, right?
You know, one thing we can do actually,
how big is this thing supposed to be?
That's supposed to be
57 tiles.
So 114.
Let's see if that actually is what it's
expected
or is it scaled wrong.
Uh it's kind of hard to say. I think
it's a little scaled wrong. Maybe.
Well, we've just put the position
and the target.
How the heck is this over here?
Oh, wait. Did we just put
And wait, how did this teleport?
Actually, that doesn't make any bloody
sense, does it?
I don't know, man. It's weird.
Something's with the chords. I This is
why I hate doing chords stuff like this.
Okay, so this is now at 0000, right?
So, if I just put the camera,
what? What did I just do? [__] Holy.
Let's do this. Come on. Stop being
stupid.
Okay. So here we're pointed at this
corner, right?
This thing is 20
25. There's also this like weird thing
when you initialize straight up. So
we're going to do like 28 like we're
going to do this.
Let's see what happens.
Okay, this puts us
weirdly over here. Cool.
Let's try negative.
We're still not in the center of it
though, right?
This is the center here.
Is it just counting the floor units?
The arena is 51. Oh.
Okay.
I like we should be able to get this
from the stupid repo. So I think we need
to flip Z.
Yeah, we need to flip Z.
Yeah, this will we'll open source this.
I probably can't like include the assets
in the repo, but I can probably include
the download scripts for them.
Um, we'll see, man. I honestly
I think um the hardest part is the
rendering anyways. Like, it's probably
not even that hard to implement the
waves.
watching? No, I don't watch any sports.
just copy and paste the list of waves.
L You don't even need an LLM, dude.
It's like really like once you have the
thing and it's just a spawn lo, it's
like really easy to do that.
The hard part is getting the getting the
visuals to match and then also making
sure that your engine code is correct.
list. Dude, that would take me like an
hour. That's like nothing.
Oh, also it's not the spawn locations
either, right? Like the spawns are
random,
so you don't even need that. You
literally just need the mobs.
That would like take I mean that would
honestly take like 15 minutes. It's not
hard.
Yeah, now the model's just freaking
gone.
is lovely.
How the mobs occupy them.
It's not the rough spawn spots. There's
a specific It's a specific set of spawn
tiles, isn't it?
Is it upside down.
Southwest. It's probably southwest.
This is the reason I didn't want to do
this as well. Like, this is the reason I
put it off cuz I knew this this part was
going to be a pain in the ass.
Like as soon as we have consistent
freaking chords,
this part always just sucks.
Always sucks.
The camera is oriented differently.
Well, does it matter? Liberty.
The models are all [__] stupid.
That's why I'm not letting them touch
the code for this.
is more. No, it's not
The only thing this is good for is
calling through large quantities of
[__]
It doesn't ask you. Oh, I see.
Great. Well, I'm not letting it do
anything anyways. It's not editing my
code.
Okay, cool.
Better.
questions about No, no, no. Not about my
codebase, Jess. I know I know about my
code base cuz I wrote it.
It's about the um shitty TypeScript
thing that this is based on
cuz that's like unreadable mess.
Yeah.
It's rotating about X
6.5.
This is not right.
completely [__] broken.
I mean, this could be
I'm trying to see if we are on the um
Well, the player's in the wrong spot as
well.
If you zoom, what does it take? So, it
does work with zoom now. Liberty,
do you have the TypeScript
sometimes porting it? It's not going to
be able to port the whole code. It can't
even answer questions about the code.
It'll write 20,000 lines of garbage,
send you a $1,000 bill, and it won't
work.
I'm actually getting tempted to just
like try to find it myself. The problem
is you can't even find where [__] is in
their code.
That's the problem.
We'll go look at this.
Yeah. See, why the [__] are we rotating
this
glTF model?
I guess the thing is because it could be
in the SDK.
Let's go look at this in the uh this
one.
plus C after flip.
How to deal with MS that have with high
variance episode lengths. What do you
mean how to deal with it? You just do
it. Why is that a problem?
bias.
No,
you end up with more shorter episodes,
but like you end up with um
with a biased or shorter episodes.
I don't think that's a real problem.
Yeah, that's not a real problem.
Okay. Yeah, but that's not the problem
that you just described. The problem
that you just described is like
No, that's like you're that's like
you're giving it 80% frap data.
Like why are the shorter. The episodes
are shorter because the agent is
failing, right?
Okay. So then that's not a problem.
The episodes wouldn't be short if the
agent didn't suck.
Like the problem you want to fix is the
agent sucking, not like these other
things.
These other things are just indicators
that your agent sucks.
Oh yeah. How's our um how's our sweep?
Okay, nothing too crazy so far.
19K in 6 minutes.
It's probably the uh the first
first uh run though.
Yeah, this coordinate stuff sucks. This
just sucks,
honestly.
I hate this. Yeah, I completely hate
this.
Hey user.
All
right, I got to use the restroom. I got
to get more tea and then we're going to
figure this out myself because the
language model is too dumb to even
answer questions about a codebase, which
is pretty cool. That's a pretty cool
result. I'll be back.
Okay.
Do you have any shoes? Okay. I already
answered that.
All right.
the [__]
OBS embeddings.
You can try it. See if it's fast.
Okay. So, now we have
What do we have? Nothing, right? We've
got absolutely nothing. Cool. Um, let's
go figure out
just
SDK rendering.
Okay, this thing is just getting stupid.
Jesus Christ, man.
Ferno scene.
Inferno settings
progression.
Where is the damn player spawn?
got all the spawns here.
So, where's the damn logic that converts
the player position?
28. Okay. So, um, here we're going to do
it like this.
Player location. Okay.
player.loation
their own likely zero offset
2817.
Okay.
So in that case
it would be
That's yes.
Nope.
This camera is like [__] isn't it?
Camera position.
Okay. Why the hell are our axes this
way?
Our axes are freaking backwards, right?
Oh, wait. Is it our the access? Hang on.
Oh, wait. It's our x-axis.
Our axes are just screwed up somehow.
Probably from this camera being stupid.
Now camera looks fine
when facing plus Z plus X is pure left.
What?
Oh yes. Okay. So why is it rotated then?
Yeah. So there's the model
is getting drawn.
Dude, this coordinate [__] is so bloody
confusing. I like
CBA honestly.
every damn time as well. The models are
always in some stupid format.
Not what I want to do for hours.
New art inspired in Pokemon.
trying to I'm trying to figure out why
the hell the uh the scene is getting
drawn in the wrong spot. There's some
weird coordinate system shenanigans
going on and like it's just obnoxious to
get hung up on this for hours. This
happens every single time, by the way,
with a new 3D project where there's like
an existing one. There's always some
stupid coordinate system that you have
to figure out every single
going to be too big, isn't it?
That's funny.
Yeah.
Well, there you go.
There's some transform because this is
nowhere near the size of the map, right?
Is it?
Wait, is that Oh, that could be actually
it, couldn't it?
That looks about right.
And then what? Red is north pillar.
Yeah, these look that looks about right.
So, wait, is this
This is where Zuck spawns, right?
Yeah.
Does he spawn on this side? What side
does Zuck spawn on?
Can I see it from here?
No.
Zuck spawns north.
So, isn't this in the right?
Isn't this correct then? This is where
he spawns, right? And if this here is
north pillar, if red is north pillar,
then
this and he spawns. Yeah. So then why
the hell is the map just so weirdly
offset?
It's probably just plus the size of the
map, right?
Yeah.
Well, this is still Hang on. It's still
weird
cuz this is Isn't this too uh this is
too much to the center for the north
pillar?
Oh, but the starting point is correct,
right? like it starts you right behind
the pillar.
Try to just like give the origin of 57
maybe.
Still off
way closer.
What happens if we just don't do two
world?
actual inferno spawns you sell. Yeah,
you're like in the center, right? Or
whatever
Negative
X.
It's neither of these
cuz 57 tiles is
I mean we do not have the size of the
freaking map is the
there.
So, the tiles are easier. I can, but
hang on. I have an idea.
Okay.
Is this from the north? No, that's not
from the north. Here it is.
Uh, is this from the north? Uh, this
guy's lost all his pillars. I can't
tell. But yeah, this is from the north.
Okay. So,
see, one, two, three, four, five, six,
seven, eight.
10.
So it starts on the 10th tile.
So wait one one two three four five six
seven
eight nine 10.
See,
is this lined up correctly? Probably
not, but it's about here.
And how many?
Three, five. There. Five tiles.
One, two, three,
five.
About here.
But then why is this west pillar like in
the freaking wall?
Because
it should be here.
And where's where's the other pillar?
Where's the other pillar
here?
This one should have
basically three tiles. It should. Yeah,
it's all three tiles line up with this
side pretty much.
So actually it's got to be like hereish.
So what's this put us at? 6.5. Well, so
-7 61.
-761
I think it's a 0.5 as well right
this line this lines up now though
Looks good.
2817.
That's way too high up
and way too far back.
All right,
that looks decentish.
Pillar lines up. Cool. Got these in the
right spot.
so much easier.
We good?
No.
Five tiles between north pillar and edge
of the map. I think we got that right.
One, cuz you can stand here. Two, three,
four, five. Yeah. One, two, three, four,
five. Got it.
You can stand here, right? This is the
tile you can't stand on.
I don't know. I only have the one KC for
the cape.
I want to get pathing in at least
Oh, maybe it is just floor. Maybe you
don't need the 0.5 now. Hang on.
Nope. Between two tiles.
get hovered tile.
Floor. Pause.
2.5. Isn't it?
No, it's.5.
That's annoying.
Okay, this one is pretty close. We'll
have to fix this after.
Yeah, this is pretty close at the least.
Let's do movement.
zoom issues. Yeah, it's a little bit
off, but we're like it's decent. We've
got this
where the pillars go.
We're going to try to see movement if we
can get movement in.
What do you mean? Yeah, I'm still here.
I've only been live three and a half
hours.
I don't know.
If I feel like it, we could go try to
like send the uh first Inferno intempt
in the last four years. Probably goes
terribly.
Haven't been there since I got the cape.
I do have a task.
Much better than I can do. Well, I'd
hope so given that I've been doing this
stuff my whole life pretty much. I would
hope so.
really.
Ah, I see.
They not.
How do I do this
client
there?
Okay.
Move.
player.
Oh, we don't have the agent at all, do
we?
Let's do that first.
HDMI. Yes. Watching a big sports ball
event. Nope.
I'm probably going to stream this until
dinner and then play some games and go
to bed.
Sunday is my rest day,
which is supposed to mean I'm not
streaming for hours on end, but
All right. I literally, if we just have
the chords right on this, the whole rest
of this is going to be so easy. Like the
more I think about the RS engine, it's
not hard at all. It's really freaking
easy.
I have a question. Holy wait, wait, hang
on. A lot of messages. Do you work
full-time with Puffer? Uh, Puffer is my
company. So, yes,
all the stuff we do is open source like
all the stuff I stream, but we also
build high performance simulations for
companies and we get reinforcement
learning working on them. Question about
a training. Do you know about the game
data trade? Nope. Time frame up to entry
point stop allow take profit
the results approach work
yes liberty we have done active work and
have active work in finance as well is
the lord's day yeah this is considered
rest don't tell me you're back at C++ no
Jess it's uh this is C thankfully
and not be touching C++ on a Sunday
awful language
honestly terrible nobody should use
I don't think that's
mouse button pressed. Yes.
This work.
Okay. It's a little janky, but yes, like
there's an off by something error, but
you know,
seems like the camera is also um
Oh, I see. It's because we have the
camera like this.
We'll do it with wheel.
There's a mouse button.
No, you are a bad source of income.
Yeah, we charge companies.
could be making more money. Yeah, but
Jess, I mean, this will eventually scale
anyways.
Prices will probably be going up with 40
as well. We'll see.
I mean, we actually have um we have
enough active work at the moment that we
are like kind of refusing small
contracts.
Like realistically, I probably could
spend more time on like and take more of
them, but I need time to delve into and
do other stuff.
This doesn't count. This is a rest day.
This is what I'm doing instead of
playing Runescape. So,
race the brick is going up.
mouse button. Middle.
So now we got this pan,
you know, we got this pan thing.
Cool.
Now since we roughly have this
um we can do
the pathing logic.
Yes, that's just
Now, here's the pathing logic.
14.5 mil is still faster. That's funny.
I will be shocked if you need 14.5 mil
though. I I think you can do chest with
less than that. At least a really really
good chest with less than that. I don't
know what the smallest GM model would
be.
The
garbage
pathing.ts TS looks promising.
We don't even have a grid in place yet,
do we?
Um
Spencer had made a sketch
commented out
would be I have no idea Jess. I just
know like miles can be small.
We will see.
It's going to be big with coms, though.
I think you're going to end up stacking
some more miners instead. It'll be
better.
What?
Okay. It's literally just this
Okay. It's probably just this
pillar is just an entity.
Yeah, probably just this.
system. Stop. Push
collides with collidable entities at
point.
Yeah. So the FPS
be locked.
FPS is 60.
Um, so
60 *6 is 36.
36.
Okay. Well, we need to fix this.
It's pathing in the middle of this
Oops.
Let's just figure this out real quick.
Stop being a goober.
Five
+ 1.5
minus 1.5.
Yeah, like this
there.
This is two tiles. My guy, what's wrong
with you?
+ one + one
there.
Okay, so we've got some missing logic,
but at least we're not stepping on um
this thing is offset weird, but
And then what we can do is
uh I mean we can put in animations and
all sorts of stuff.
I think we should figure out the uh man
we need to figure out the actual
freaking cords for the tiles.
can figure this out.
Okay, let's figure this out.
Yeah, we're off by a lot here, right?
Like 1.5
Why is it negative? That seems okay.
Maybe not. Um,
it's definitely off by 0.5 here
and by 1.5 here.
So, how are we off?
This actually went to the right spot,
but here it doesn't.
draw a tile.
I wonder if it is just a static.
No, because it's not changing at the
tile boundaries, right?
You know why?
Because this offset
offsets.5.
So we should do
Okay, it's changing at the right
boundaries now.
It's probably plus.
Why does Y need to be plus 1.5?
That's it.
Yeah, this works. It's kind of weird.
Okay. So, Z
so it's probably this one is wrong and
the other one is wrong
cuz like if I do this
probably now it renders right now it
renders wrong but it moves correctly
right like if I click here
Yeah. Okay. So, now we just have to
render it one tile more and we'll be
good.
So, the Z needs to be plus plus
uh oh, like this. And we're good.
Yeah, that looks better. Boom.
Okay, we actually have a movement model
that doesn't suck. Look at this.
first commit on this. Maybe
maybe just for the code.
Oops.
Okay, now we got to implement entities,
don't we?
Thanks.
Yes sir.
Southwest.
Let's add a color for now.
Hello Warborg. Welcome.
We are
implementing the inferno.
What we're doing and chilling.
only getting 2 mil FPS. Uh, on what end?
as I tried breakout earlier today and I
was getting like I think eight or
something on my 570.
So um you are using the right one right
it's build breakout
wait should it even be building an so
yeah it should definitely be not 2 mil
SPS um
it defaults to 16 threads I believe I
don't know if you've got a 16 core CPU,
you can set it lower and it'll be fine
that could mess it up,
a nonPI one.
Yeah, off the top of my head, could just
be threads. I haven't tested it in a lot
of places yet, though. I did test it on
this 5070, and this is not a 16 core
CPU, I don't think, and it worked fine.
There's probably a whole bunch of stuff
we're going to have to test on different
systems. It's a very big update.
What was the main work done on and
around Puffer since the start of the
year? So, the last month or so. Um,
in the last month or so, I believe we've
gotten Puffer from like seven or eight
mil SPS up to 15 million SPS. We have a
bunch of nice custom kernels. We've got
nice new VEC back end. We've got a lot
of stuff massively cleaned up. We've got
sweeps integration. Uh we've got Bloat
16.
Uh let's see. We've gotten some like
really nice speedrun results solving a
bunch of ends. Heck of a lot. Is that
OSRS fight cave inferno?
Yeah, I'm having fun on Sunday
implementing this.
Yeah, I felt like streaming today.
Kind of just feel like doing a little
bit of stuff. Okay, so we got our
pillars. They're drawn.
Now we got to add some other stuff in
here.
thousand plus floats
for the M. Yeah, that'll do it. A
thousand plus floats is a lot. I think
we can get you can probably still get a
couple million out of it.
I mean, our new VE should in theory be
much faster for that, but we need to do
more testing.
8.
Let's do less pillars like
Cool.
I want this dude closer out to the west
pillar.
The west pillar is like 11
15.
Put this dude over here.
Okay, so this is fine. We'll just put a
dude over here.
Use OM. Yeah.
Okay. So,
and have him follow us around.
Agent.
Hey, look. I got a friend.
I can run away from him.
H. Cool.
He's running too fast though. Be like
one one one.
Yeah, now I got a friend that moves at a
reasonable speed.
Decent, right?
should be at the southwest tile as well.
Needs to be drawn from
Oh, that's Yeah, that's important. We're
walking through pillars. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. We haven't done collisions yet. I
haven't done collisions yet. It's got to
be drawn from southwest tile. Got to do
collision behavior. I think we have a if
I do another hour and a half, two hours
of this, I think we have a decent shot
of having at least a reasonable
collision model and stuff.
That was a fun project.
It'll be so cool to see this thing just
like do the whole inferno.
I think it'll honestly even like it
won't be that hard to get it to learn
the waves even
like what's ep length going to be if
it's like even if it's um what like hour
and a half cape two hour cape
6k per hour. Yeah, it's like 12k or
whatever with rewards every wave easy.
There's a rest room and we'll get this
thing. We'll get collisions.
Think perfect's going to get you banned.
What?
I'm not using it on the main game, my
guy.
It's not the point of this.
Actually,
that's kind of good. We'll just make the
model like so good that it's so
obviously a bot that nobody can use it
on the main game cuz it's like too good.
Gets insta banned.
That'd be funny.
I mean, depending on how well this goes,
right? If we get the whole thing
implemented and the inferno is too easy,
we could try to do no pillar inferno.
That'd be nutty.
Okay. So this is the extent.
So for one by one this is in the middle.
shaping. We're not going to need to
shape.
It's literally just going to be plus one
per wave, minus one for death.
Puffer is good enough to just insta
solve stuff. Now,
as long as the fast. That will be
plenty.
Hey, if I can't do sub one hour inferno,
but uh if my bot gets the speedrun, do
you think that qualifi? Do you think
I'll get an invite to Obliv?
That'd be funny. Of course, it's not on
the main game. We're not We're not We're
not ever putting this on the main game
unless we got permission to test it.
Yeah, you get the CA for that.
Yeah, I don't have um
I am actually the main goal I have on my
account is the CAS right now, but I'm
stuck on Doom. Doom is hard. Like it's
going to I'm going to actually have I
was supposed to actually do that today,
but then I figured I would work on this
instead and actually build something
cool. That's going to take me some time.
The 161 is going to be rough.
I think it would be way easier.
Um,
hang on.
This is going to give us an int.
Why is this centered like this?
Yes. Kvert.
Boom. Check this out.
Working on it.
I think if we implement this, we won't
really need to do coliseum. Like this is
a good enough task.
Like honestly, um
yeah, this is like awesome on its own.
Though to be fair, probably adding a new
one once you have the core engine is not
hard.
I figure we're going to ask some of the
contributors if they want to help us get
the models and animation stuff working
because that's the one thing I just do
not want to be asked doing is like
figuring out how to get all the models
and animations proper. I got the scene
loaded in and that was enough of a pain.
So, this is a problem because
Oh, is this a problem? Hang on.
No, I don't think it is.
Cuz all we have to do then is um
wait, what is southwest? So, this is
this is north.
And that's west.
Southwest is over there, which is plus
plus x + z is southwest.
R X
Is this what we're going to do? So, plus
2.0
and then you do minus 0.5.
Let's see what's this does.
Okay, so that shifts
that shifts everything, doesn't it?
Yeah, there's one extra tile now.
So, we need to shift everything
How did that not shift our Z actually?
Wait, isn't it five?
Wait. One, two, three, four, five, six.
I wonder if this is what was the
problem. 6.5.
Yeah. Yeah. So, that fixes this one.
Then let's do 60.5.
No, other way around. 62.5.
And now it actually lines up with the
expected uh the expectation. One, two.
Right.
Okay. Okay, so this is the same as
before except now everything is on
southwest tile correctly
and then move NPC is very easy.
We do have to make sure we get the logic
right.
What's your procedure? Well, I'm writing
all the code for this celebrity.
I'm basically using this to go sift
through the um the TypeScript repo
and pull out little details because
their code's really bad.
I mean, the agents are incredibly
incredibly dumb.
That's funny.
I mean, we could try it. What is the NPC
movement? It's like
NPCs have way simpler path finding than
this
Can I not go see it myself?
Might just be better off seeing it
myself.
Okay.
It's start. It's No, dude. We're not
trying to like do fancy pathing. We're
trying to match the games.
Good at reading and writing and bad at
understanding. Uh, you can't read or
write without understanding. So, that
just means they're bad at everything.
Maybe good at lying.
How do we do this freaking check?
Oh, it's like an AAB, right?
This right?
This little thing right here.
We'll just do it this way for now.
didn't you write collision flag? What?
What do you mean?
Where you going?
Okay. So, it's like
off by a little bit.
one tile.
So these should be int.
I don't know why I have everything as
float.
Let's see if that changes anything.
Come on, debug
wonk.
just X.
So, this one wants to go to 20
32.
So, it should just want to increase its
X by one.
probably could be just rendering bug,
right?
But no, look, this is fine. No. Um,
it's Y21, but desk Y
is here.
corner of the NPC, right? Ah, yes.
Oops.
Hey, there you go. Right. And then this
is an unloops.
Uh except
Okay, so the path finding is a little
janky here because it can't get trapped
like this.
But it can get trapped here, right?
This is supposed to be able to get
trapped here.
Um
and that's it's east west rule, right?
East west and then north south, right?
Uh just a test real quick.
I believe it's like this.
You just do.
Obviously, we won't leave it this way.
I believe it I believe this is how the
game actually does it.
It tries to move west first, right?
So like this is a trap
and it doesn't get
No, it's supposed to get unlearned here,
right?
Definitely not this.
Oh, I see it.
Is it not this?
This should unur.
This is supposed to unlur though.
Right. So like this.
Okay.
Still not fully correct.
I mean this is the important mechanic
honestly to get right.
Delta
X Cloud. You got to But there's a north
south and there's like a north south
east west rule, isn't there?
Oh, it's forgotten. It's like forgotten
all the [__] right?
The [__]
Yeah, club's really dumb. Okay. Um,
it's not really good for answering
questions. Like, it it's just not good
for anything, honestly.
That's ridiculous.
See this is not
this is used for player not for the um
YouTube
prioritize east west over north south.
Isn't that what I have?
East. West.
It' be like this, wouldn't it?
Prioritize the east west
over north south.
But this doesn't work, right?
This is a totally this is non lur. No.
and try this one as well.
This one has a different consequence.
Is that it?
No, they don't work this way, right?
Can't you corner trap here or am I
wrong?
I thought you can corner trap here. No.
And I know the this one here.
Well, it also doesn't try to step on you
is the thing.
So, let's try to make it not step on you
as well.
Maybe it's because it gets stuck on you.
Maybe it gets stuck on you. Hang on.
This is not correct though.
And did it just mess me up?
North
2821.
Okay, so this is where it messed up.
Okay.
This is
Entity
is not agents.
Hello there.
What are your thoughts on getting corner
trapped today? No.
You can corner trap on this side, can't
you?
Or is it the other side?
Oh, you come up here.
No. See, it's like
it's not supposed to come around, right?
This is not supposed to come around.
This is supposed to get stuck east west.
zeros out the Y movement but keeps X.
So we'll try to move in X.
X is prioritized over Y, right?
It try east, west, and give up.
So which means if it's blocked on X,
there should be a return.
But that doesn't make sense to me
either.
Because that would mean that if you have
an enemy behind a wall, it would just
get stuck. It just gets stuck on the
wall and never gets to you, right?
That's not how it works.
So, this doesn't seem complete to me.
Oh, would collide with the player.
That's interesting. If it would collide
with the player
But I'm trying to figure out how that
gets implemented.
Then it tries to move east west.
But like
so the problem here, right,
is if I do this.
Okay.
This is not how the game works,
right? So, it's trying to move east west
here.
It's supposed to come down.
Let me see.
Wait,
is this how it works?
I'm thinking of the ranger, aren't I?
What's the melee wave?
What's the first melee wave?
Wave
17.
nine.
Edit wave.
Oh, there he is.
All right. What's up, melee? Okay. Also,
this guy is 4x4, not freaking 2 by two,
dummy.
Okay, so he's going to try to line up
his southwest tile with me, right?
Okay.
Oh, he does just come around there
and there.
Okay. He's going to try to line up his
Tile with me
some bruise.
So we can do it here.
Okay. Okay. So, he's corner trapped on
the Huh?
Okay, this is what I was looking for.
So, it keeps the Y movement.
Oh, wait. I have the loops reversed.
I have the loops reversed.
Keeps the Y movement. Duh.
Let's also make this guy chunkier
cuz I'd forgotten that the uh
these guys They're 4x4s.
All right. Now, we got a big chunker,
right?
And he's going to just come right around
if I don't. Um,
but if I go here,
it's hard to tell because Oops.
It's hard to tell because he gets there
so soon.
See, this is definitely not right.
That was wrong now already. You can't
save spot.
You can do this right
there. Look.
So, first of all, this
Come on.
Like box.
Oh, I killed it.
So you can see spot it right here,
right?
It tries to move this way and then this
way, but it doesn't.
Maybe this
I think it's what you I think you have
to actually execute both of these,
right? I think you do
Is it like this or some weird thing?
so you know it comes down Still,
continue
in the Y loop.
Why would that do anything?
It breaks one loop.
Yeah, this is very simple. I'm just
getting tired. It' be nice to have this
though today.
I if I just think about it for a moment
probably
what I don't understand is
well it tries to move an X first. Hang
on. It tries to move in X first and then
it tries to move in Y. All right.
And if it collides in the ax,
it's probably some jank like this, man.
I'd imagine it's probably some weird
thing like this.
Nope.
So it's like
it moves this way.
Oh, wait.
This can be a break. I don't think that
does anything.
Let me see.
Yes. So, we move the agent first
anyways.
So, I move down.
Wait, it's not aligning a southwest tile
with me.
Why does it move back up?
It should be southwest tile over here.
Oh, wait. Do I have the wrong tile being
aligned?
I probably have the wrong tile being
aligned.
Um, the southwest tile is
Wait, can we test this?
Yeah, I think it's northwest.
I think I probably have the wrong tile.
Yeah, it comes around on this side.
It's trying to line up.
Yeah, it's trying to line up this tile
with me, right?
It's trying to line up the uh the north.
Yeah, northwest.
I think it's using northwest tile, not
southwest.
South and west.
So where where do I have the wrong type?
Like how am I doing this wrong?
One of the axes incorrect.
Your anchor is northwest. Yeah.
I think it's just the AABB
and uh the spawn maybe.
Is it just the A BB?
Or is it also the draw?
I think this is minus
I think it's this and the AAB
how you create the model.
Uh well these are just cubes. I the
cubes get drawn from the center. I'm
computing everything for the cues.
Okay. Well, now we got a problem here.
Are they overlapping or something?
needs to go up by two.
Now it's tempting to align the right
tile.
So the AAB is probably wrong.
And then it should be good.
And then what we can do is we can put a
couple mobs in and see if they stack up
the way they're supposed to.
Yeah. So, this is lining up with me,
right?
Damn it. Why does it still do this?
Oh, cuz it's trying to line this up.
So if you collide in the X direction,
you reset the X movement.
Well, we have it lining up correctly,
but now the question is why?
There is a very simple solution. I'm
just not seeing it.
Yeah. So, see it's lining up its edge
with it's like correctly lining up the
edge here.
Right. So, it's lining up the edge here.
Why actually I don't understand fully
why it is then this thing is not
why can't it move down
it Try the Y movement first.
Are we back to this again?
I think it does. Try the Y movement
first.
Maybe it's this.
We're back to this again.
What?
Oh,
it's probably some weird freaking thing.
Spaghetti.
Actually,
no. This doesn't make any freaking sense
to me, does it?
Wait, can you
I just don't understand the game as much
as I thought. I think
Yeah. So it will align its edge.
Yeah, it lines up its edge.
Is it is collision with this player
special or something?
but like I don't understand what I don't
understand how the hell you get this
behavior right like let me show you
again okay
so watch this if I stand here look it
comes around you see it comes comes all
the way around the pillar.
But if I do this,
it doesn't. It stops right here.
You see?
How does it stop here? If I move one
tile this way, it will come around.
Like, what's it stuck on?
Cuz
like if it tries to move this way, it'll
be stuck.
Um
like I don't see how me standing here
changes its pathing.
Watch this. It comes around all the way
around. You see? If I were standing
here, it would be fine.
Oh, also when you're standing in a mob,
it does weird things.
Can't figure out. Yeah, exactly. Like,
what the hell did they do that makes it
do this?
If the mob's diagonal will overlap with
the player specifically.
Okay. I mean, we can do this.
Hang on.
Let's see.
This is a mess, but um let's see.
Come on.
Diagonal step.
what kind of RL you do. We do um
everything except language models.
So if you take a look in Ocean here, we
have a whole bunch of demo MS, a lot of
games, not just games though, drones
driving. Uh the current dev build of
Puffer is capable of training over 15
million steps per second on a single
GPU. So ludicrously high performance sim
and uh ludicrously high performance
training.
We also do some custom algorithm stuff.
We do research, do a lot of things
around here and it's all open source. I
don't usually stream my dev on Sunday,
but uh we're working on just a for fun
project at the moment, trying to
replicate Runescape's Inferno as an RLN
cuz I thought that would be a fun thing
to do on a Sunday apparently.
This does not work right.
Yeah. So, this just Oh, no. This paths
that looks kind of right.
Oh, did we get it? Oh, yes. Do star
puffer on GitHub. It helps me out a ton.
This looks right. And if I do this, aha,
it comes around.
So, I think we got the pathing, guys.
I think we got the pathing.
This is supposed to be a chill. Yes,
exactly.
Yeah, I think we got the pathing. That's
so janky they have it implemented that
way though. That is like so weird.
Why would they do that? Like
I have no idea why they do that.
I don't know. Let's add some mobs in, I
guess. Right.
This one too.
We'll make the pillars three tall.
Uh the pillars can be
Pillars can be red.
No, the pillars can be yellow.
And then the test enemy
is going to be red.
The height can be two.
Uh let's do this dude.
X can be
18.
Actually, go find the spawn locations.
This is 12 18
size is what? How big is the ranger,
dude?
Ranger Chunky.
Mage is four.
Range is three.
blue.
Let's do 14
size three.
Well, they decided to go fly off the map
apparently.
Maybe the pillar should not um
Yeah, maybe the uh the pillar should not
chase me.
All right, look at this.
Let's pick a different spawn for the
mage. That's like a really annoying
spawn.
A 26
42. Let's try this.
That's reasonable, right?
Of course, the ranger is going to see
you and like smack you before then.
And also, they stop um
they stop chasing you as soon as they
get in range, I forget.
They do, right?
They still got some mapping stuff to
deal with.
Let's also uh real quick the the render
size.
Uhoh.
I don't know what happened there.
The pillar is set to
Oh, dummy. Here it is.
There we go.
They stack up nicely.
Yeah, they stack up nicely now.
Cool.
That's solid.
Well, I got to go for dinner in a sec.
Um,
commit the current version.
All right, I got to go, folks. I'm going
to post Should I post a screenshot of
this?
I can post a quick screenshot, I
suppose.
Okay.
All right. That'll be it. Thank you all
folks. Star the puffer on GitHub. Uh, I
will be back streaming tomorrow or